on a certain day two cows were grazing
on the English meadow English cows one
cow asked the other what is your opinion
about the mad cow disease the other cow
said I don't care a hoot
I'm anyway helicopter being a mystic
being a realised being is just like this
a cow realizing that it's a cow and it
becomes a celebrated cow holy cow isn't
it is it that simplistic so let me tell
you my story so as a child one thing
that I realized was that I was utterly
absolutely ignorant and everybody around
me seemed to know just about everything
I did not know anything at all so
because I did not know anything I had to
pay enormous attention towards
everything my sense of attention become
became like this if I see a leaf I could
just sit there looking at this leaf just
tearing at it for hours if I set up in
my bed just tearing at the darkness I
could just do this for the whole night
so this attention brought a completely
different level of involvement and
interaction with just about anything and
everything around me animate and
inanimate but everybody else seemed to
know everything and they were just going
about their life busy and happy but I
was just tearing at every little thing
then I saw that I realized that even
they did not know anything it is just
that they had their assumptions and
belief systems that they were happy with
either their own or what was handed down
to them by someone else and they not
only knew about what is here they also
knew about other worlds about gods about
heavens and everything and here I was
struggling to figure
what is what so this so intrigued me
that I started planting myself outside a
main tell major temple here in Mysore
because I wanted to really see after
having a meeting with God after having a
conversation with God how people will be
so I stood there intensely observing
every face that's walking out of the
temple and generally I heard local
gossip
sometimes in Indian temples your
Footwear walks away with someone else
and then I see here people cursing the
creation and the Creator I always found
people walking out of restaurants as are
always had more joyful faces than people
walking out of temples divine versus
dosa dosa seems to win I could not come
to terms with this and so I slowly
became more and more and more skeptical
about everybody and everything around me
skeptical about social structures
political systems religious beliefs even
scientific theories because none of them
match with my experience of life on a
certain day I started moving towards
charmander Hill you must see this place
and there is a tradition in Mysore if
you have something to do you go to
Chamundi Hill if you have nothing to do
you go to Chamundi Hill if you fall in
love you go to Chamundi Hill if you fall
out you go to Chamundi Hill I had just
fallen out and I had nothing to do so I
started moving towards Chamundi Hill and
I went up and said in a rock there till
that moment in my life I always thought
this is me and that's somebody else in
something else but for the first time I
did not know which is me and which is
not me suddenly what was me was just all
over the place the very rock on which I
was sitting the air that I breathe the
very atmosphere around me I had just
exploded into everything that sounds
like after insanity this
I thought lasted for
10 to 15 minutes but when I came back to
my normal consciousness I was about four
and a half hours I was sitting there
fully conscious eyes open but time had
just flipped in my experience for the
first time in my adult life tears were
flowing down and I've always been
peaceful and happy that was not an issue
but here I was drenched in a completely
different kind of blissfulness every
cell in my body bursting with ecstasy
when I shook my head and trying to get
some logical explanation for what's
happening to me the only thing that my
wear is smart mind could say was maybe
I'm just going off my rocker this
experience has it deepened and it
started repeating itself if I just sit
here
what is moments for me seemed to be
hours for others I think it's a minute
hours have gone on a certain day I
happened to be sitting in a certain
place
I actually thought it's about 25-30
minutes but when I came to my normal
senses thirteen days had gone by I was
sitting right there India being what it
is a whole crowd had gathered Garland's
around my neck people touching my feet
somebody wants to know what will happen
to his business somebody wants to know
when his daughter will get married all
the things that I hated was just
happening around me and I had to move
away from this place just to avoid this
crowd around me and as this experience
deepened into me one thing that happened
to me was everything that I believed was
me suddenly was not me this was always
me and suddenly I found this is just an
accumulation of food that I've eaten
what I accumulate can be mind but can
never be me this is just a huge heap of
impressions in my mind and this body and
mind not being me but just being mine a
distance arose between me and my body
between me and my mind this also
facilitated a certain experience within
me that suddenly the equation of time
and space was suddenly not applicable
for me
I was seeing that what is here is there
what is there is here preposterous and
future got mixed up it was one majestic
yas but utterly beautiful
so my skeptical mind not able to come to
terms with it was I was static started
conducting experiments these experiments
are too weird to talk about and the
results - fairy tale is for anybody to
believe but one thing that I arrived at
was that existence is not human centric
and all human experience is self-made
most people believe that their
experience is moulded by worse
situations in which they exist but all
human experience is 100% self created
from within I think today a lot of
science is beginning to agree with that
and having realized it if all experience
is created from within if the basis of
your experience is within you the seat
of your experience is within you as it
ease what kind of experience of life
would you want to have for yourself I'm
sure you want it to be at most
pleasantness whatever you may be doing
what you want for your neighbor may be
debatable but what you want for yourself
definitely you want at most pleasantness
as I realize the basis of my experiences
within me I shifted from staring at
things to sitting with my eyes closed
this was a dimensional shift in my life
from staring to sitting with my eyes
closed I got so fascinated with this
human mechanism I wouldn't want to open
my eyes for days on end I'm just keeping
my eyes closed
wanting to see everything about this one
and what I realized was if I take a
piece of bread and put it into this
system this piece of bread becomes my
body in a few hours and I begin to
experience this as myself this amazing
process as I became more and more aware
of it I saw the very source of creation
the very maker of this body the
manufacturer of this body is within once
I saw this and I could see that I could
rewire my brains completely in 24 hours
changing myself beyond social upbringing
family situations even genetic qualities
in me I could see I could just
completely change everything about
myself in 24 hours I'm a different
person under 24 hours I'm a different
person I was like a conscious kids
effeminate trying out different things
on a certain day I just in a field
hockey game I fractured my left ankle
and I went and sat down in a place I was
in excruciating pain and by then I had
also become a chronic aesthetic and I
had a very serious estimate and this
pain and this inability to breathe
together they were quite something
at that moment it occurred to me if the
maker of this body is inside why is it
that I cannot mend this from inside I
sought I sat down with a certain resolve
if this is true I must be able to allow
it to mend itself otherwise I must be
completely in a wrong track i sat down
with my eyes closed for about little
more than an hour when I came out my
asked my left me never to come back
again and above all my fractured leg was
perfectly okay and little about little
more than an hour's time armed with this
experience I started creating methods
and systems through which every human
being could access that intelligence and
that capability within the system which
can make a piece of bread into a human
being this intelligence and this
competence within the human system which
is not just about thought process exists
in every human being but unfortunately
remains untapped and I went about
creating systems that people could make
use of today these technologies for
inner well-being these methods to
engineer your interior tea the way you
want it millions of people are making
use of it and enjoying the benefits of
that but the essential part of this is
that there is such a high level of
intelligence and competence competence
on every millimetre of the body every
point of the body not just in the
thought process this is completely
untapped
by human societies there are ways to do
this and as I went into this process
what I saw was what is it that
determines what is me and what is not me
I am capable of taking a piece of bread
and making it into myself if I look at
this body it is just a piece of this
planet that I have borrowed but why is
this separate and this is separate then
I found that it is just the boundaries
of sensation which determines what is me
and what is not me here there is
sensation so this is me there seems I
don't feel the sensation so that's not
me as I looked at this boundaries of
sensation very very closely from within
myself this was a face of my life where
most of the time I remain with my eyes
closed
I realized that the boundaries of
sensation can either be stretched
expanded or even made smaller than what
it is right now
you can sit here and not feel anything
that's happening here right now this
happens in sleep to some extent or you
can sit here and extend your boundaries
of your sensation for this whole hall
and anything that is within the
boundaries of your sensation you will
always experience as myself there is a
glass of water here and this is not me
that's very clear but if you drink it
you just included it into the boundaries
of your sensation and that becomes you
so if you throw the boundary of your
sensation out in an expanded form you
can sit here and experience everybody in
this Hall as yourself you can stretch it
further experience the very cosmic scape
I'd like to experience your own body
this sense of inclusiveness if it comes
into you when this came into me I
suddenly realized that to be loving is
not somebody's teaching to be
compassionate is not an idea to be an
empathy is not some esoteric principle
this is the way a human being is made if
only he does not constipate his
consciousness with limited
identifications with things that he is
not if you do not identify with anything
that you have accumulated over a period
of time including your
body and mind every human being is
capable of this when it comes to
external situations each one of us are
differently capable but when it comes to
inner situations every one of us is
equally capable no human being is better
and no than the other when it comes to
the inner realm it's only in the
external situations that we are all
differently capable if this
inclusiveness enters human life if you
can sit here and experience people
around you as yourself I don't think I
have to teach you to be good I don't
think I have to teach you to laugh I
don't think I have to teach you to care
because caring for this one is very very
natural
this is ingrained within the very nature
of the existence this inclusiveness
definitely has to touch humanity so this
became my life my work and my endeavor
to develop methods so that people can
experience this inclusiveness
if this inclusiveness is experienced by
humanity particularly by the leadership
people who will power and probe
different aspects of responsibility in
the world definitely we could find
solutions for everything because today
we as a generation of people this is
very significant for the first time we
are capable of addressing every human
problem on this planet of nourishment
health education ecology you name it we
can address it all we have the necessary
resource capability and technology for
the very first time but are we going to
do it simply depends upon how inclusive
is our experience of life if you stand
here and we experience this planet as
yourself I don't think I have to tell
you take care of it every human being
would do his best when we do not have
this inclusiveness what we could do we
will not do in our lives if we do not do
what we cannot do that is not a problem
but if you do not do what we can do we
are a disaster my hope and my work is
just to see that we as a generation of
people do not become that kind of a
disaster that what we
we will definitely do and right now what
we can do compared to what we could do
100 years ago is so incredibly different
so incredibly different but what's
missing is an all inclusive
consciousness our call to all inclusive
experience of life if only we bring this
about in the leadership in the people
only then we will seek solutions that
are relevant for all otherwise we'll go
about dabbling creating in the name of
creating solutions we go about creating
more and more problems if we truly have
to create solutions that are relevant
for all an experience of absolute
inclusiveness has to happen to humanity
and it's possible thank you very much
[Applause]
[Music]
you